Time out o' mind the fairies' coachmakers.

'When griping grief the heart doth wound,
And doleful dumps the mind oppress,
Then music with her silver sound
With speedy help doth lend redress.'

And frame your mind to mirth and merriment,

Was it not to refresh the mind of man

For 'tis the mind that makes the body rich;

And the moon changes even as your mind.

But how is it that this lives in thy mind?

A turn or two I'll walk to still my beating mind.

And, since I saw thee, th' affliction of my mind amends,

Do not infest your mind with beating on
The strangeness of this business;

You see how all conditions, how all minds
tender down their services

That man might ne'er be wretched for his mind.

Sermons in stones, and good in everything.

Who doth ambition shun,
And loves to live i' th' sun,

Let gentleness my strong enforcement be;

Of drops that sacred pity hath engend'red;

And therefore sit you down in gentleness,

That every eye which in this forest looks
Shall see thy virtue witness'd every where.

As it is a spare life,
look you, it fits my humour well;

Time travels in divers paces with divers persons.

To forswear the full stream of the world
and to live in a nook merely monastic.

It is the purpose that makes strong the vow;

I will believe thou hast a mind that suits

If all were minded so, the times should cease,

They look into the beauty of thy mind,

These vacant leaves thy mind's imprint will bear,

To take a new acquaintance of thy mind.

Divert strong minds to the course of alt'ring things:

Crowning the present, doubting of the rest?

And by my body's action teach my mind

Keep unshak'd that temple, thy fair mind,

All things are ready, if our minds be so.

Cease, cease these jars and rest your minds in peace;

Continue still in this so good a mind,

And fearless minds climb soonest unto crowns.

You bear a gentle mind, and heav'nly blessings
Follow such creatures.

Who alone suffers suffers most i' th' mind,

With profits of the mind, study and fast.

Let it not enter in your mind of love;

Nor hath Love's mind of any judgment taste;

Is true of mind and made of no such baseness

Both in your form and nobleness of mind;

Unlooked for joy in that I honour most;

Then happy I that love and am beloved

Wherein it finds a joy above the rest,

To make the coming hour o'erflow with joy

Enjoy thy plainness;
It nothing ill becomes thee.

And may enjoy such quiet walks as these?

Now you are heir, therefore enjoy it now.

My crown is call'd content;
A crown it is that seldom kings enjoy.

My crown is in my heart, not on my head;

He finds the joys of heaven here on earth;

Joy, gentle friends, joy and fresh days of love
Accompany your hearts!

Silence is the perfectest herald of joy.

And joy comes well in such a needy time.

Hourly joys be still upon you!

When inward joy enforc'd my heart to smile!

Roses have thorns, and silver fountains mud,

The purest spring is not so free from mud

When wheat is green, when hawthorn buds appear.

An odorous chaplet of sweet summer buds

And that same dew which sometime on the buds

This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,

Happiness courts thee in her best array;

Wish me partaker in thy happiness

One feast, one house, one mutual happiness!

I would you would make use of that good wisdom

The amity that wisdom knits not, folly may easily untie.

The constancy and virtue of your love.

I put you to the use of your own virtues,

O infinite virtue, com'st thou smiling from
The world's great snare uncaught?

Your patience and your virtue well deserves it.

That love which virtue begs and virtue grants.

Whereof the root was fix'd in virtue's ground,

For virtue and true beauty of the soul,

For virtue's office never breaks men's troth.

Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful.

As there is sense in truth and truth in virtue,

Silence bestows that virtue on it,

Your bounty, virtue, fair humility;

The very virtue of compassion in thee,

Lies rich in virtue and unmingled.

But we in silence hold this virtue well:

And manifest experience had collected

To make you understand this in a manifested effect, 

You shall find your safety manifested.  

Where words are scarce, they are seldom spent in vain;

Enforce attention like deep harmony.

It is the show and seal of nature's truth,

Hath not in nature's mystery more science

How hard it is to hide the sparks of nature!

Since nature cannot choose his origin,-

All of one nature, of one substance bred,

Which nature, love, and filial tenderness,

As Nature was in making graces dear,

Shall change all griefs and quarrels into love.

Comets, importing change of times and states,

Steel thy fearful thoughts and change misdoubt to resolution;

And kiss the lips of unacquainted change,

And take thou my oblation, poor but free,

