New Lines for Oracle 2015

Roses have thorns, and silver fountains mud,

Clouds and eclipses stain both moon and sun,

The purest spring is not so free from mud

For all the mud in Egypt. Have you heard it?

From whence this stream through muddy passages

Here stands the spring whom you have stain'd with mud

And with mine eyes I'll drink the words you send,

Drink the free air.

That's a valiant flea that dare eat his breakfast on the lip of a lion.

Nothing but sit and sit, and eat and eat!

His compassion may give life to yours.

Melted with tenderness and mild compassion,

Like as the waves make towards the pebbled shore,

Let the pebbles on the hungry beach fillip the stars

Have fill'd their pockets full of pebble stones

The murmuring surge that on th' unnumb'red idle pebble chafes

Silence bestows that virtue on it

Out of this silence yet I pick'd a welcome

Silence is the perfectest herald of joy.

But we in silence hold this virtue well:

Full many a glorious morning have I seen

Flatter the mountain tops with sovereign eye

Kissing with golden face the meadows green

Gilding pale streams with heavenly alchemy

Ah but those tears are pearl which thy love sheds

Roses have thorns, and silver fountains mud

Clouds and eclipses stain both moon and sun

To forswear the full stream of the world

The rank of osiers by the murmuring stream

And, floating straight, obedient to the stream

We see which way the stream of time doth run

As many fresh streams meet in one salt sea

As plays the sun upon the glassy streams

Turns into yellow gold his salt green streams

From whence this stream through muddy passages

Would through the airy region stream so bright

What relish is in this? How runs the stream?

I'll be as patient as a gentle stream

To make some special instant special-blest

Let's take the instant by the forward top

That every eye which in this forest looks

Men of great worth resorted to this forest,

Through the forest have I gone,

The forest walks are wide and spacious,

O earth, I will befriend thee more with rain

And op'd their arms to embrace me as a friend.

But here's the joy, my friend and I are one,

In true plain words, by thy true-telling friend.

My friends were poor, but honest; so's my love.

For I must tell you friendly in your ear:

As meditation or the thoughts of love,

And so we'll leave you to your meditations

In maiden meditation, fancy-free.

Divinely bent to meditation

But on his knees at meditation

