In brief, sir, study what you most affect. 

There’s small choice in rotten apples. 

Strive mightily, but eat and drink as friends. 

I am not so nice to change true rules for odd inventions. 

It blots thy beauty as frosts do bite the meads, 

But now I see our lances are but straws, 

Over whose acres walk'd those blessed feet, 

And, like bright metal on a sullen ground, 

Out of this nettle, danger, we pluck this flower, safety. 

What doth gravity out of his bed at midnight? 

Play out the play. 

While you live, tell truth, and shame the devil. 

A little more than a little, is by much too much. 

As if an angel dropp’d down from the clouds, 

That’s a valiant flea that dare eat his breakfast on the lip of a lion. 

For they say every why hath a wherefore.  

Smile heaven upon this fair conjunction. 

Now civil wounds are stopp'd, peace lives again. 

And make us heirs of all eternity.  

The mind shall banquet, though the body pine. 

As painfully to pore upon a book to seek the light of truth. 

Study is like the heaven's glorious sun. 

Too much to know is to know nought but fame. 

He weeds the corn, and still lets grow the weeding.  

How well he's read, to reason against reading!  

Affliction may one day smile again. 

Love-thoughts lie rich when canopied with bow'rs. 

When my tongue blabs, then let mine eyes not see. 

Youth's a stuff will not endure. 

Being once display'd doth fall that very hour. 

Time out o' mind the fairies' coachmakers.

When griping grief the heart doth wound,

And doleful dumps the mind oppress,

That man might ne'er be wretched for his mind.

They look into the beauty of thy mind,

And that same dew which sometime on the buds

Wish me partaker in thy happiness

Since nature cannot choose his origin,-

Which nature, love, and filial tenderness,

Spread o'er the silver waves thy golden hairs,

Nor did I wonder at the lily's white,

Whilst I am bound to wonder, I am bound to pity too.

Full merrily the humble-bee doth sing

Like as the waves make towards the pebbled shore,

Sweet beauty hath no name no holy bower,

When summer's breath their masked buds discloses:

One minute, nay, one quiet breath of rest.

Draws the sweet infant breath of gentle sleep;

Clouds and eclipses stain both moon and sun,

For all the mud in Egypt. Have you heard it?

From whence this stream through muddy passages

Here stands the spring whom you have stain'd with mud

And with mine eyes I'll drink the words you send,

Drink the free air.

Nothing but sit and sit, and eat and eat!

His compassion may give life to yours.

Melted with tenderness and mild compassion,

Let the pebbles on the hungry beach fillip the stars

Have fill'd their pockets full of pebble stones

Out of this silence yet I pick'd a welcome

Full many a glorious morning have I seen

Flatter the mountain tops with sovereign eye

Kissing with golden face the meadows green

Gilding pale streams with heavenly alchemy

Ah but those tears are pearl which thy love sheds

Roses have thorns, and silver fountains mud

Clouds and eclipses stain both moon and sun

To forswear the full stream of the world

The rank of osiers by the murmuring stream

And, floating straight, obedient to the stream

We see which way the stream of time doth run

As many fresh streams meet in one salt sea

As plays the sun upon the glassy streams

Turns into yellow gold his salt green streams

From whence this stream through muddy passages

Would through the airy region stream so bright

What relish is in this? How runs the stream?

I'll be as patient as a gentle stream

To make some special instant special-blest

Let's take the instant by the forward top

That every eye which in this forest looks

Men of great worth resorted to this forest,

Through the forest have I gone,

The forest walks are wide and spacious,

O earth, I will befriend thee more with rain

And op'd their arms to embrace me as a friend.

But here's the joy, my friend and I are one,

In true plain words, by thy true-telling friend.

My friends were poor, but honest; so's my love.

For I must tell you friendly in your ear:

As meditation or the thoughts of love,

And so we'll leave you to your meditations

In maiden meditation, fancy-free.

Divinely bent to meditation

But on his knees at meditation
